New window and dialog API (#744)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/whats-new/whats-new-compose-112.md

exceptions. With the MCP server, agents can trigger reloads, take screenshots, inspect the
semantic tree, simulate clicks and input, and read application logs without requiring your manual intervention.

To start the MCP server alongside your application, run the `hotMcpServerJvm` Gradle task.
For the full list of MCP tools available to the AI agent and how to connect it, see
[MCP server for AI agents](compose-hot-reload.md#mcp-server-for-ai-agents).

### New window and dialog API
<primary-label ref="Experimental"/>

We've introduced a new experimental API for `WindowState` and `DialogState` on desktop, 
addressing several limitations of the existing API.

> It lives alongside the current API in the `androidx.compose.ui.window.v2` subpackage, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is available alongside the current API in the `androidx.compose.ui.window.v2` subpackage, 
```

so you can adopt it gradually.

The new API gives you more control over how windows and dialogs are placed and sized: 
you can select the screen they appear on, 
provide custom positioning and sizing logic (including logic based on the content's intrinsic size), 
set minimum and maximum window sizes, and position dialogs relative to their parent window. 
It also makes the asynchronous nature of window state changes explicit, 

> cleanly separating requested state from actual state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separating requested state from actual state.
```

For example, to open a window centered on the screen at a fixed size:

```kotlin
import androidx.compose.ui.window.v2.*

> ...

Reviewer: Having the ellipsis here means that we're expecting people to have other imports, but also not showing everything that is needed for the code below. I'd just list everything that is required and make the sample working as is.

@OptIn(ExperimentalComposeUiApi::class)
fun main() = application {
    val windowState = rememberWindowState(
        initialBoundsProvider = WindowBoundsProvider(
            positionProvider = 
                WindowPositionProvider.AlignedToScreen(Alignment.Center),
            sizeProvider = 
                WindowSizeProvider.Fixed(DpSize(400.dp, 200.dp))
        )
    )

    Window(
        onCloseRequest = ::exitApplication,
        state = windowState,
    ) {
        Text("Hello, World!", fontSize = 48.sp)
    }
}
```

The redesigned API also unlocks scenarios that weren't possible before, such as sizing a window to its 
content's preferred size while still letting the content expand (via modifiers like `fillMaxSize()`) when the window is larger.

> See the [dedicated documentation](compose-desktop-top-level-windows-management.md#new-window-and-dialog-api) for details.

Reviewer: The link text can be more descriptive; maybe simply the name of the section.

For the full list of MCP tools available to the AI agent and how to connect it, see
[MCP server for AI agents](compose-hot-reload.md#mcp-server-for-ai-agents).

### Window and dialog API v2
<primary-label ref="Experimental"/>

We've introduced a new experimental v2 API for `WindowState` and `DialogState` on desktop, 
addressing several limitations of the existing API.
The v2 API is available in the `androidx.compose.ui.window.v2` subpackage.

The v2 API gives you more control over how windows and dialogs are placed and sized. You can: 
* Select the screen a window appears on
* Provide custom positioning and sizing logic, including logic based on the content's intrinsic size
* Set minimum and maximum window sizes
* Position dialogs relative to their parent window

> It also makes the asynchronous nature of window state changes explicit, separating requested state from actual state.

Reviewer: New paragraph, it's better not to rely on pronouns: instead of "it" we could use the established "v2 API" or "new API" as the context of its novelty is established.

For example, to open a window centered on the screen with a fixed size:

```kotlin
import androidx.compose.material.Text
import androidx.compose.ui.ExperimentalComposeUiApi
import androidx.compose.ui.unit.DpSize
import androidx.compose.ui.unit.dp
import androidx.compose.ui.unit.sp
import androidx.compose.ui.window.application

> import androidx.compose.ui.window.v2.*

Reviewer: My initial point about `Window` kind of stands here: I'd show explicit import of the v2 classes. The sample itself is unambiguous, but if I copy it into existing code with the old `Window` import, I'll have to diagnose the conflict just for that much longer.

@OptIn(ExperimentalComposeUiApi::class)
fun main() = application {
    val windowState = rememberWindowState(
        initialBoundsProvider = WindowBoundsProvider(
            positionProvider = WindowPositionProvider.CenteredOnScreen,
            sizeProvider = WindowSizeProvider.Fixed(DpSize(400.dp, 200.dp))
        )
    )

    Window(
        onCloseRequest = ::exitApplication,

>         state = windowState

Reviewer: Not much of a correction, but trailing commas are a [feature rather than a bug](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html#trailing-commas) in Kotlin :)
